# Dynamic-Virtual-Gesture-System

# Abstract

With new changes seen in engineering field day by day, it become quite important for society to search out specific new ways in which of interaction with computer systems and technology as its need is increasing in society everyday. Today, all device is creating the application of touch screen technology on its computer systems, that is not affordable to be employed in every applications. A particular system sort of a virtual mouse that generates  object pursuit(tracking) and Gestures which will ease us to interact, it can be an alternate technique for the typical touch screen and also the solid physical mouse. the target is to make associate Object pursuit(tracking) application that interacts with the computer system.This system proposed is a Computer Vision-based control system, that uses hand gestures that are being captured from a digital camera through associate with hand detection technique implemented using OpenCV libraries.

Our project which applies gesture recognition as a topic which comes under two computer science fields like augmented reality and human-computer interaction and we have created a virtual gesture system with the goal of elucidating human gestures through the mathematical algorithms. Users can use simple finger or hand gestures to control or interact with the system without physically touching them and also we included a voice assistance to start and end the gesture controlling system. Gesture recognition can be viewed as a way for computers to begin to recognize human body language and signs, thus stuffing the void between computing systems and humans than earliest text user interfaces or even graphical user interfaces, which still limit the majority of input to keyboard and mouse are may not be very efficient at all times.

The algorithm is focused on deep learning for detecting the gestures. Hence, the proposed system will avoid pandemic situation of COVID-19 spread by reducing the human interaction with the devices to control the system.


CHAPTER - 1 INTRODUCTION 1.1 OVERVIEW: The years 2019-2021 has shown mankind some mind-boggling series of events amongst which the COVID-19 pandemic is the most life-changing event which has startled the world since the year began. Affecting the health and lives of masses, COVID-19 has called for strict measures to be followed in order to prevent the spread of disease. In this project, we have tried to reduce the gap between the real world and the augmented environment to produce a mixed reality system. For that purpose, we created a virtually controllable keyboard, mouse and some other gesture controlling system and voice assistance. To provide an easy immersive augmented experience which is also gesture enabled, we employ a web camera which is integrated with OpenCV libraries through a compiler. Using our system, users can control a virtual keyboard using their finger movements and finger tips. Further, users can communicate with people who are viewing the screen, the user selects an alphabet with their fingertip and can move the keyboard with the help of hand gesture. This paper describes the way of implementing a virtual keyboard, mouse and some other gesture controlling system without any additional hardware but by using the webcam available in the system. The webcam simply captures the consecutive frames and compares them to recognize it as a click if there is a difference in the contour. 1
1.2 OBJECTIVE OF THE PROJECT: The general objective of the project is to develop a Virtual Interface system to support contact-less interaction with the computers in public places. The specific objectives of the project is to replace the traditional physical I/O devices with virtual AI framework using hand gestures and voice assistance. 1.3 PROBLEM STATEMENT: 1. The task here is to access and analyze the webcam images and let the computer act accordingly to it. 2. We want to build a system that allows the user to interact with the computer with hand gestures and voice assistance. 1.4 SCOPE OF THE PROJECT: There are no efficient contact-less interactive applications to allow the user to have a safe experience. This increases the demand for an efficient interface system in public places like ATM, Airports,Railway Stations etc. This project uses Human-Computer Interaction using OpenCV and Voice assistance to perform input operactions without direct interactions.

